1. Consider the statement “for all integers A 
 and B, if A+B is even, then A and B are even”

a) Write the contrapositive of the statement.

for all integers A and B,if A and B are odd, then A+B is odd.

b) Write the converse of the statement.

If A and B are even, then A+B are even.

c) Write the negation of the statement.

There exists numbers where A+B is even, but A and B are not even.

d) Is the original statement true or false? Prove your answer.

The orignial statement is false. A counter example would be $1 + 1 = 2$. A and B in this case are both odd.

e) Is the contrapositive of the original statement true or false? Prove your answer.

False. Using the previous example again, $1+1=2$ and 2 is even, so it's false.

f) Is the converse of the original statement true or false? Prove your answer.

True. When A and B are even, then $A = 2C$ and $B = 2D$ with some integers C and D. We know that $A + B = 2C + 2D = 2(C+D)$. Anything integer doubled has to be even, so this is true.

Is the negation of the original statement true or false? Prove your answer.

True. For example, $1+1=2$ is an equation where A and B are odd, but $A+B$ are even.

2. 
a) Proof by contradiction

 Start of proof: Assume there are integers x and y such that x is a prime greater than 5 and $x = 6y+3$.
 
 End of proof: … this is a contradiction, so there are no such integers.

 b) Direct proof 
 
 Start of proof: Let n
 be an integer. Assume n
 is a multiple of 3. 
 
 End of proof: Therefore n 
 can be written as the sum of consecutive integers.

 c) Contrapositive

 Start of proof: Let 
 a and b
 be integers. Assume that 
 a and b
 are even. End of proof: Therefore $a^2+b^2$
 is even.

 3)

 a) If n is even, 8n is even because:
8n = 2(4n) and any integer multiplied by 2 is even.

b) The convers is false. For example, if $n$ is 1, then 8 would be even, but 1 would be odd.

4)

a) There are only 6 sides, so even if 36 of the 40 dice each rolled 6 of each number, there would still be 4 more dice to roll, which means that there has to be at least one number that comes up 7 times or more.

b) You'd have to roll 10 dice to guarantee. If you were to roll the dice and there aren't four matching numbers, then that would mean at most, there are three of any number. If we only had three different values, that would be only 9 dice, so there must be 4 different values, giving 4 dice that are all different.

5)
If n is even, then 3n has to be even because $n=2k$ and $3n=2(3k)$. 

If n isn't even, then 3n isn't even because $n = 2k + 1$ and $3n = 3(2k+1) = 6k+3=2(3k+1)+1$. Therefore if 3n is even, n is even.
